Examples/Host-Service-Project/readme.md, before:

## Introduction

This example solution helps you to establish a Host and a service project and established a cloudsql connection between a VM instance and the cloud sql instance using the private ip of the compute instance. CloudSql and Compute instance are created in the service project and the host project having the vpc, subnets, firewall rules etc.

## Requirements

No requirements.

## Pre-requisite
1. User Running this should have following permissions.
   - **Host Project**
      - roles/compute.networkAdmin
      - roles/compute.securityAdmin
      - roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin
      - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
      - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
   - **Service Project**
      - roles/compute.instanceAdmin
      - roles/cloudsql.admin
      - roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin
      - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
      - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
   - **Compute XpnPermission**
      - Should have `roles/compute.xpnAdmin` permission at a common folder owning the host and service project. Here is a [link](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/iam#compute.xpnAdmin) describing the same.

2. You have modified the constants in **terraform.tfvars** as per your configuration like host_project_id, service_project_id etc.
3. You have terraform and gcloud installed.
4. You should have authenticated using gcloud command `gcloud auth application-default login`
5. you can now cd in to the directory and execute -> `terraform init ` && `terraform plan`. Review the content displayed in the plan stage and if all looks good then move to next step.
6. Run `terraform apply` and type `yes` when asked for confirmation/approval.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | 3.90.1 |
| <a name="provider_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#provider\_google-beta) | 4.71.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_cloudsql"></a> [cloudsql](#module\_cloudsql) | GoogleCloudPlatform/sql-db/google//modules/mysql | 8.0.0 |
| <a name="module_compute_instance"></a> [compute\_instance](#module\_compute\_instance) | terraform-google-modules/vm/google//modules/compute_instance | n/a |
| <a name="module_gce_sa"></a> [gce\_sa](#module\_gce\_sa) | terraform-google-modules/service-accounts/google | ~> 3.0 |
| <a name="module_host_project"></a> [host\_project](#module\_host\_project) | terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services | n/a |
| <a name="module_instance_template"></a> [instance\_template](#module\_instance\_template) | terraform-google-modules/vm/google//modules/instance_template | n/a |
| <a name="module_project_services"></a> [project\_services](#module\_project\_services) | terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services | n/a |
| <a name="module_terraform_service_accounts"></a> [terraform\_service\_accounts](#module\_terraform\_service\_accounts) | terraform-google-modules/service-accounts/google | ~> 3.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [google-beta_google_compute_global_address.private_ip_address](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_global_address) | resource |
| [google-beta_google_compute_network.private_network](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_network) | resource |
| [google-beta_google_service_networking_connection.private_vpc_connection](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_service_networking_connection) | resource |
| [google_compute_firewall.enable_ssh](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_firewall) | resource |
| [google_compute_firewall.rules](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_firewall) | resource |
| [google_compute_shared_vpc_host_project.host](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_shared_vpc_host_project) | resource |
| [google_compute_shared_vpc_service_project.service1](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_shared_vpc_service_project) | resource |
| [google_compute_subnetwork.subnet](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_subnetwork) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_cloudsql_instance_name"></a> [cloudsql\_instance\_name](#input\_cloudsql\_instance\_name) | Name of the cloud sql instance which will be created. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_create_network"></a> [create\_network](#input\_create\_network) | Variable to determine if a new network should be created or not. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_create_subnetwork"></a> [create\_subnetwork](#input\_create\_subnetwork) | Variable to determine if a new sub network should be created or not. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_database_version"></a> [database\_version](#input\_database\_version) | Database version of the mysql in Cloud SQL . | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_gce_tags"></a> [gce\_tags](#input\_gce\_tags) | List of tags to be applied to gce instance. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br>  "cloudsql"<br>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_host_project_id"></a> [host\_project\_id](#input\_host\_project\_id) | Project Id of the Host GCP Project. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_network_id"></a> [network\_id](#input\_network\_id) | Complete network Id. This is required when var.create\_network is set of false. e.g. : projects/pm-singleproject-20/global/networks/cloudsql-easy | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the VPC network to be created if var.create\_network is marked as true. | `string` | `"cloudsql-easy"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_routing_mode"></a> [network\_routing\_mode](#input\_network\_routing\_mode) | Network Routing Mode to be used, Could be REGIONAL or GLOBAL. | `string` | `"GLOBAL"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_tier"></a> [network\_tier](#input\_network\_tier) | Networking tier to be used. | `string` | `"STANDARD"` | no |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | Name of a GCP region. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_service_project_id"></a> [service\_project\_id](#input\_service\_project\_id) | Project Id of the Service GCP Project attached to the Host GCP project. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_id"></a> [subnetwork\_id](#input\_subnetwork\_id) | Complete subnetwork Id. This is required when var.create\_subnetwork is set of false. e.g. : projects/pm-singleproject-20/regions/us-central1/subnetworks/cloudsql-easy-subnet | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_ip_cidr"></a> [subnetwork\_ip\_cidr](#input\_subnetwork\_ip\_cidr) | CIDR range for the subnet to be created if var.create\_subnetwork is set to true. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the sub network to be created if var.create\_subnetwork is marked as true. | `string` | `"cloudsql-easy-subnet"` | no |
| <a name="input_target_size"></a> [target\_size](#input\_target\_size) | Number of GCE instances to be created. | `number` | `1` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | Name of a GCP zone, should be in the same region as specified in the region variable. | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_network_id"></a> [network\_id](#output\_network\_id) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_id"></a> [subnetwork\_id](#output\_subnetwork\_id) | n/a |

Commit message:

add helper script and update readme file

Examples/Host-Service-Project/readme.md, after:

## Introduction

This example solution helps you to establish a Host and a service project and established a cloudsql connection between a VM instance and the cloud sql instance using the private ip of the compute instance. CloudSql and Compute instance are created in the service project and the host project having the vpc, subnets, firewall rules etc.

## Requirements

No requirements.

## Pre-requisite
1. User should have two projects which will act as Host Project and a Service Project.
2.1 User Running this should have following permissions.
   - **Host Project**
      - roles/compute.networkAdmin
      - roles/compute.securityAdmin
      - roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin
      - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
      - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
   - **Service Project**
      - roles/compute.instanceAdmin
      - roles/cloudsql.admin
      - roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin
      - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
      - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
   - **Compute XpnPermission**
      - Should have `roles/compute.xpnAdmin` permission at a common folder owning the host and service project. Here is a [link](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/iam#compute.xpnAdmin) describing the same.

2.2. [Optional] you can also create a service account and impersonate the service account and update `providers.tf.template` file by updating the `impersonate_service_account` field with the service account you have created with appropriate permission as described above and renaming the `providers.tf.template` to `providers.tf` file.
There is a helped script provided which can be used to create a service account with relevant permission at localtion `cloudsql-easy-networking/helper-scripts/createserviceaccount.sh`.

3. You have modified the constants in **terraform.tfvars** as per your configuration like host_project_id, service_project_id etc.
4. You have terraform and gcloud installed.
5. You should have authenticated using gcloud command `gcloud auth application-default login`
6. you can now cd in to the directory and execute -> `terraform init ` && `terraform plan`. Review the content displayed in the plan stage and if all looks good then move to next step.
7. Run `terraform apply` and type `yes` when asked for confirmation/approval.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | 3.90.1 |
| <a name="provider_google-beta"></a> [google-beta](#provider\_google-beta) | 4.71.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_cloudsql"></a> [cloudsql](#module\_cloudsql) | GoogleCloudPlatform/sql-db/google//modules/mysql | 8.0.0 |
| <a name="module_compute_instance"></a> [compute\_instance](#module\_compute\_instance) | terraform-google-modules/vm/google//modules/compute_instance | n/a |
| <a name="module_gce_sa"></a> [gce\_sa](#module\_gce\_sa) | terraform-google-modules/service-accounts/google | ~> 3.0 |
| <a name="module_host_project"></a> [host\_project](#module\_host\_project) | terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services | n/a |
| <a name="module_instance_template"></a> [instance\_template](#module\_instance\_template) | terraform-google-modules/vm/google//modules/instance_template | n/a |
| <a name="module_project_services"></a> [project\_services](#module\_project\_services) | terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services | n/a |
| <a name="module_terraform_service_accounts"></a> [terraform\_service\_accounts](#module\_terraform\_service\_accounts) | terraform-google-modules/service-accounts/google | ~> 3.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [google-beta_google_compute_global_address.private_ip_address](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_global_address) | resource |
| [google-beta_google_compute_network.private_network](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_compute_network) | resource |
| [google-beta_google_service_networking_connection.private_vpc_connection](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/google_service_networking_connection) | resource |
| [google_compute_firewall.enable_ssh](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_firewall) | resource |
| [google_compute_firewall.rules](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_firewall) | resource |
| [google_compute_shared_vpc_host_project.host](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_shared_vpc_host_project) | resource |
| [google_compute_shared_vpc_service_project.service1](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_shared_vpc_service_project) | resource |
| [google_compute_subnetwork.subnet](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/compute_subnetwork) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_cloudsql_instance_name"></a> [cloudsql\_instance\_name](#input\_cloudsql\_instance\_name) | Name of the cloud sql instance which will be created. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_create_network"></a> [create\_network](#input\_create\_network) | Variable to determine if a new network should be created or not. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_create_subnetwork"></a> [create\_subnetwork](#input\_create\_subnetwork) | Variable to determine if a new sub network should be created or not. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_database_version"></a> [database\_version](#input\_database\_version) | Database version of the mysql in Cloud SQL . | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_gce_tags"></a> [gce\_tags](#input\_gce\_tags) | List of tags to be applied to gce instance. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br>  "cloudsql"<br>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_host_project_id"></a> [host\_project\_id](#input\_host\_project\_id) | Project Id of the Host GCP Project. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_network_id"></a> [network\_id](#input\_network\_id) | Complete network Id. This is required when var.create\_network is set of false. e.g. : projects/pm-singleproject-20/global/networks/cloudsql-easy | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#input\_network\_name) | Name of the VPC network to be created if var.create\_network is marked as true. | `string` | `"cloudsql-easy"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_routing_mode"></a> [network\_routing\_mode](#input\_network\_routing\_mode) | Network Routing Mode to be used, Could be REGIONAL or GLOBAL. | `string` | `"GLOBAL"` | no |
| <a name="input_network_tier"></a> [network\_tier](#input\_network\_tier) | Networking tier to be used. | `string` | `"STANDARD"` | no |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | Name of a GCP region. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_service_project_id"></a> [service\_project\_id](#input\_service\_project\_id) | Project Id of the Service GCP Project attached to the Host GCP project. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_id"></a> [subnetwork\_id](#input\_subnetwork\_id) | Complete subnetwork Id. This is required when var.create\_subnetwork is set of false. e.g. : projects/pm-singleproject-20/regions/us-central1/subnetworks/cloudsql-easy-subnet | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_ip_cidr"></a> [subnetwork\_ip\_cidr](#input\_subnetwork\_ip\_cidr) | CIDR range for the subnet to be created if var.create\_subnetwork is set to true. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#input\_subnetwork\_name) | Name of the sub network to be created if var.create\_subnetwork is marked as true. | `string` | `"cloudsql-easy-subnet"` | no |
| <a name="input_target_size"></a> [target\_size](#input\_target\_size) | Number of GCE instances to be created. | `number` | `1` | no |
| <a name="input_zone"></a> [zone](#input\_zone) | Name of a GCP zone, should be in the same region as specified in the region variable. | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_network_id"></a> [network\_id](#output\_network\_id) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_id"></a> [subnetwork\_id](#output\_subnetwork\_id) | n/a |
